# Capstone
About 1 in 8 women in the U.S. will develop invasive breast cancer over their lifetime. It is estimated that in 2022 around 287,850 new cases of invasive breast cancer will be diagnosed in women, along with 51,400 new cases of non-invasive breast cancer (U.S. Breast Cancer Statistics, 2022). The objective of this project is to identify and predict survivability of a breast cancer patient, based on the age, the stage at diagnosis, treatment type, tumor size and other attributes of the patient and disease. Such a predictive model if used early in the treatment of a patient can help medical professionals and specialists in better planning treatment options for their patients. As such this information can be valuable to a patient, in the early stages of their diagnosis. Using techniques such as Feature Ranking, and Ensemble Learning models, this project will help predict the survivability of a cancer patient. The techniques considered in the project are Forward Selection, Filter Method and Wrapper Method to find the best features in the dataset based on model accuracy. Furthermore, ensemble learning techniques of Bagging and Boosting are used in this project to find the best model to fit the data and answer the question of survivability. Models used in this project are Gradient Boosting and Random Forest, each model is evaluated against each other based on model accuracy. These specific machine learning techniques used in this project can also be transferred to other data, for example predicting customer churn in a business environment, or active user churn for mobile applications and games. These techniques can also be used to predict when a videogame user will convert into a paying user in that game by making a purchase. The tools proposed to be used in this project are Tableau for data exploration and visualization, and Python for the code and modeling of the data. The main questions this project seeks to answer include, what features are most important in predicting mortality in breast cancer patients? Which model produces the highest accuracy given the data available? What role do the patient demographics play in breast cancer survivability? What if a patient died of other causes than breast cancer? Answering these questions will not only help with breast cancer survivability prediction but also the techniques used in this paper will hopefully be translated into an e-commerce setting, to predict customer churn and customer lifetime value.

# Methodology
In this paper the main focus is on Logistic Regression, XGBoost, LightGBM and Randfom Forrest classifiers to evaluate which model performs given the clinical data for breast cancer patients. LazyClassifier has been utilized to run and assess, several ML classification models and rank them by accuracy score. All the models previously mentioned before had accuracy scores of above 70% which is why they were chosen to see what improvement can be made to the model performance. GridSearch was used to find the best possible Accuracy score and Parameters for each model. XBGBoost improved the most after hyperparameter tuning.
